### 10. Harem

An iron portcullis seals the entrance to this chamber. To raise it, a creature must lift a lever in area 9.

>>A fountain of cool water bubbles on the floor ahead. The scent of lilies fills the air, and silken drapes drift lazily in the heat. Archways open into shaded booths heaped with cushions and trays of sugared sweets. Lounging about are a dozen scantily clad humanoids with eyes like those of snakes and scaly patches on their arms, legs, necks, and backs. Watching over them are a pair of inhuman bipedal reptiles.
>>

**Ras Nsi**'s concubines live in luxury within these chambers. Eleven **yuan-ti purebloods** and a **doppelganger** disguised as a pureblood comprise the harem. Two **yuan-ti broodguards** (see *appendix D*) watch over the harem at all hours.

**Ras Nsi** used to spend much of his time here, sampling the harem's delights. Since the death curse took hold of him, he has cloistered himself elsewhere. The purebloods neither help nor hinder the characters, and they fear **Ras Nsi** enough not to betray him willingly. Despite **Ras Nsi**'s efforts to hide the effects of the death curse, the concubines know that he is sick and dying.

**Ras Nsi**'s yuan-ti champion, **Sekelok** (area 11), is fascinated by the concubine Neema and courts disaster by visiting her in the dead of night. Neema browbeats the other concubines to cover up her affair.

#### Doppelganger Spy

The doppelganger infiltrated the temple by killing and assuming the form of a male yuan-ti pureblood named Ishmakahl (pronounced ISH-mah-kawl). It has been sent by Zagmira, a Red Wizard, to spy on **Ras Nsi**. Unfortunately for its employers, the doppelganger has had little contact with **Ras Nsi** since arriving at the fane; however, it has learned a few things by eavesdropping on **Sekelok** and Neema's intimate conversations.

Ishmakahl appears as a handsome Chultan man with eyes like a snake's. If the characters make contact with the doppelganger on behalf of the Red Wizards, it offers to help them steal any puzzle cubes from **Ras Nsi**'s lair (area 12). Ishmakahl knows the layout of the temple and knows there's a secret door somewhere in the throne room (area 11) that leads to **Ras Nsi**'s lair. The doppelganger also knows that **Ras Nsi**'s lair can be reached via the fane's teleporters, though it doesn't know how to activate them. It advises the characters to break into the lair when **Sekelok** next visits the harem.

Ishmakahl is secretly contemplating a defection to the yuan-ti. If its plan shows any signs of backfiring, the doppelganger reveals itself to **Ras Nsi** or **Sekelok**, and warns him about the intruders.

#### Teleporter

The eastern booth contains an alcove, set into the floor of which is a faintly glowing stone disk engraved with a serpentine symbol. This is one of **Ras Nsi**'s magic teleporters (see "Teleporters").

#### Treasure

Characters who loot these chambers gain the following treasures: a white gold tiara made from two intertwined vipers with topaz eyes (750 gp), a jade trinket box shaped like a flytrap with curling golden leaves (250 gp), and two golden cobra candlesticks (75 gp each).

