### 11. Throne Room

>>Four pillars support the vaulted ceiling, and steps ascend to an iron throne carved in the likeness of a hydra. Painted on the wall behind it is a large blue triangle. To the south, an engraved stone disk is set into the floor of an alcove. A ten-foot-wide opening in the east wall leads to a flooded cave.
>>

Circumstances determine this room's occupants:

- During the day, **Ras Nsi** (see *appendix D*) "sits" in the throne while addressing two **type 1 yuan-ti malisons** who routinely advise him. Standing guard in the middle of the room is **Ras Nsi**'s champion, **Sekelok** (see below), and three **yuan-ti broodguards** (see *appendix D*). Hidden behind the throne are four **ghouls** that obey **Ras Nsi**'s commands. Each ghoul has a blue triangle tattooed on its forehead.
- At night, **Ras Nsi** retires to area 12, leaving the other yuan-ti (including **Sekelok**) and the ghouls here. **Sekelok** sometimes sneaks off to the harem (area 10).
- If the gong in area 9 is struck, **Sekelok** and the other yuan-ti leave to investigate while the ghouls hide behind the throne and **Ras Nsi** withdraws to area 12.

#### Sekelok

**Sekelok** is a tall, muscular yuan-ti pureblood. He has the statistics of a **champion** (see *appendix D*), with these changes:

- **Sekelok** is neutral evil.
- He wears no armor, but his scales are as hard as steel (AC 18).
- He is immune to poison damage and the poisoned condition.
- He has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.
- He speaks Abyssal, Common, and Draconic.
- He has advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects.
- He has the Innate Spellcasting trait described below.

>***Innate Spellcasting.*** **Sekelok**'s spellcasting ability is Charisma (spell save DC 13). He can innately cast the following spells, requiring no material components:

>- At will: *animal friendship* (snakes only), *poison spray*
>- 3/day: *suggestion*

**Sekelok** is **Ras Nsi**'s trusted bodyguard and takes grim pleasure in slaughtering his master's enemies. **Ras Nsi** delights in forcing those who offend him to duel **Sekelok**, either to the first cut or to the death.

**Sekelok** has a secret affair with Neema, one of **Ras Nsi**'s concubines (see area 10). His motivations here are confused: while he remains staunchly loyal to **Ras Nsi**, the subterfuge fuels his ego. If **Ras Nsi** discovers the affair, he flays both parties alive for their betrayal and feeds them to his pet hydra (see area 21).

#### Secret Door

A secret door in the western corner of the north wall leads to **Ras Nsi**'s lair (area 12). To locate the secret door, a character must succeed on a DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check while searching the walls. If the characters have been told about the secret door, they gain advantage on the skill check.

#### Teleporter

The engraved stone disk in the southern alcove is one of **Ras Nsi**'s magic teleporters (see "Teleporters").

