### 12. Ras Nsi's Lair

>>Shadows dance over this opulent bedchamber. Cushions lie in one corner, and decorative shields line the walls. Treasures are heaped around the room: gold and silver coins; a gilded harp; a jeweled wine flask; pillows of silk; and fine clothes draped over wooden mannequins. To the east, an engraved stone disk is set into the floor of an alcove. To the west, a rectangular steel plate mounted on the wall is polished to a mirror-like sheen.
>>

At night, **Ras Nsi** (see *appendix D*) rests here, weakened by the death curse that is slowly consuming him. If enemies corner **Ras Nsi**, shields leap from the walls to protect him (see "Flying Shields" below). During waking hours, **Ras Nsi** returns here only if he's in danger.

If the characters defeat **Ras Nsi** and question him, he reveals the following information to save his skin:

- **Ras Nsi** is slowly rotting to death. He doesn't know the cause of his affliction and has no way to cure it.
- Before he dies, **Ras Nsi** wants to bring forth Dendar the Night Serpent and destroy the world.
- The yuan-ti believe there's a locked gate somewhere under the Peaks of Flame that prevents the Dendar from entering the world. **Acererak** has promised to help **Ras Nsi** unlock the gate and bring forth the Night Serpent. In return, **Ras Nsi** defends the Tomb of the Nine Gods.
- Nine stone puzzle cubes are needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods. **Ras Nsi** doesn't know how to use the cubes to unlock the tomb.
- The tomb entrance is marked with an obelisk. (**Ras Nsi** can provide directions and/or an escort.)
- **Acererak** slew the nine gods of Omu before enslaving the city's inhabitants, which he used to build his tomb.

#### Flying Shields

As a bonus action, **Ras Nsi** can speak a command word ("Ssilum") that causes five shields to fly off the walls and levitate around him. While they're active, **Ras Nsi** gains a +10 bonus to his AC. If an attack that would normally hit **Ras Nsi** is blocked by the shields, one of the shields is struck and disabled as it falls to the floor, reducing **Ras Nsi**'s bonus to AC by 2. When there are no more active shields, the effect ends, and **Ras Nsi** can't use this power again until he finishes a long rest. A *detect magic* or similar effect reveals an aura of transmutation magic around the shields. Only **Ras Nsi** can activate the shields, and the effect is confined to this room.

#### Teleporter

The engraved stone disk in the eastern alcove is one of **Ras Nsi**'s magic teleporters (see "Teleporters").

#### Treasure

**Ras Nsi** wields a *flame tongue* longsword and carries a *sending stone*. The companion stone is in **Salida's** possession (see "Finding a Guide").

**Ras Nsi**'s lair contains treasures from distant lands. The collection includes a Sembian wine flask (50 gp), a bejeweled Amnian doublet with matching money pouch (75 gp), a fine Cormyrean cloak (100 gp), a gilded Moonshae harp (250 gp), and three large cushions covered in Turami silk (25 gp each). Hidden under one of the cushions is **Ras Nsi**'s leather-bound spellbook, which contains all the spells he has prepared (see *appendix D*). In addition, his hoard contains thirty 50 gp gemstones in a clay urn, 150 pp in an unlocked wooden chest, 350 gp and 900 sp scattered on the floor, and a froghemoth statuette made of painted wood with three amethyst gemstones for eyes (100 gp each).

***Puzzle Cubes.*** If **Ras Nsi** has taken one or more puzzle cubes from the shrines of Omu, they can be found among the items in his hoard.

