### 13. Storeroom

The southwest double door is locked. Using *thieves' tools*, a character can pick the lock with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check.

>>Stacks of sturdy wood crates, bundles of cloth, and clay amphorae litter the floor.
>>

Supplies gathered from the world above are stored in this chamber. An awakened **giant constrictor snake** named Azi Mas serves as custodian for the provisions. When fresh goods arrive, Azi Mas personally checks them and mentally catalogs them. The rest of the time, he remains coiled in the shadows. The snake is bored and enjoys chatting with yuan-ti visitors. Should other creatures enter from the southwest, Azi Mas ambushes them and tries to take a hostage. If outmatched, he whines and pleads for mercy.

Long ago, a jungle druid used an *awaken* spell on Azi Mas, giving him an Intelligence of 10 and the ability to speak Common. After serving him for the duration of the enchantment, the serpent slithered off and found its way to Omu. Azi Mas has a good memory; he can remember names and faces and is quick to warn his masters if yuan-ti pass through whom he hasn't seen before.

#### Treasure

The storeroom contains fifty bolts of cloth; six crates of bronze bars; three barrels of salt and spices; and three chests containing rope, oil, lanterns, paper, and blankets. From the supplies, characters can assemble enough gear to make five explorer's packs.

***Mesmerizing Incense.*** Also present is a sealed case containing ten blocks of temple incense. Lighting a block creates a hazy cloud that fills a 20-foot-diameter sphere and moves with the block. Any creature that starts its turn in the cloud and breathes the air must succeed on a DC 16 Constitution saving throw or fall into a dreamlike stupor laced with nightmarish visions. Though it remains awake, the creature is poisoned. Even yuan-ti are vulnerable to this effect, which lasts for 1 hour after a creature leaves the cloud, or until it receives a *lesser restoration* spell or similar magic.

