### 19. Slave Grotto

>>A campfire casts warm light over this cavern. Heaps of dead grass and palm fronds are scattered about, and the muddy floor is pitted with footprints.
>>

When they're not working, 2d10 slaves (**commoners** of various races, alignments, and genders) dwell here. For slave names, see the "Chultan Names" sidebar in the book's introduction. Three **yuan-ti broodguards** (see *appendix D*) guard the slaves for Slavemaster Issar, a **type 3 yuan-ti malison** wearing a red cloth headdress. Issar is more interested in gazing at his own reflection in a hand mirror than putting the slaves to work.

Issar is too stately to speak to the "meat" under his command. Instead, he's chosen a Chultan slave boy named Khoti to translate his subtle, unspoken gestures. A twitch of the tail could be interpreted as an order to fetch water, or the flick of the tongue an approval. In truth, Khoti makes up most of what he sees. Issar couldn't care less either way, as long as the correct amount of deference is shown. If strangers appear before Issar, Khoti questions them on his master's behalf.

#### Slaves

Under Issar's supervision, the slaves are supposed to be widening these caverns to create new sleeping quarters for the yuan-ti. However, progress has been slow. The slaves wore down or broke most of their tools, and Issar is waiting for the delivery of new tools.

The slaves are physically healthy, but their wills have been broken by mental trauma and tranquilizing drugs. Their emotions surface only during rest, when the dreams of the Night Serpent wrench them screaming from their troubled sleep.

The slaves are not chained. Presented with an opportunity to escape, most become paralyzed with indecision. Breaking their fugue requires strong words and a successful DC 17 Charisma (Persuasion or Intimidation) check. Armed slaves who come to their senses try to slaughter as many yuan-ti as they can. They know the temple's defenses and general layout, except with regard to areas 11 and 12 (which they've never seen).

#### Treasure

Issar carries an iron key that unlocks the double door to area 13. His red cloth headdress is sewn with malachite gemstones (250 gp), and he preens in a golden hand mirror (75 gp).

