### 2. Hall of War

>>Four pillars carved with serpent reliefs support the 20-foot-high ceiling of this large room, in the middle of which is an 18-foot-high statue of a coiled cobra, facing north. Torches with green flames flicker on the walls, and the air reeks of dung. Two wagons are parked in one corner, and a triceratops is confined to a metal pen in another. To the west are a pair of dark alcoves, and to the south is a wide, pillared hall.
>>

Yuan-ti troops muster in this hall before heading into the city. Unless they have been drawn elsewhere, a **yuan-ti pureblood** named Soakosh (pronounced SOH-kawsh) and four **yuan-ti broodguards** (see *appendix D*) are stationed here. Two **basilisks** chained to hooks in the western alcoves are trained not to look their yuan-ti masters in the eye. Chewed bits of stone (the remains of petrified victims) litter the floor in the alcoves. The **triceratops** confined to the metal pen in the northwest corner is docile until threatened. The yuan-ti use it to pull supply wagons.

Soakosh is fat and has a forked tongue. He's rarely seen without a bag of his favorite food at hand: candied grung eggs.

If the alarm is raised, Soakosh commands the broodguards to unchain the basilisks from their hooks and lead them into battle like war hounds. If the alarm has not been raised but combat ensues here, one broodguard runs to sound the gong in area 9.

If the triceratops is threatened with fire or injured by an attack, it smashes through the walls of its pen and heads toward area 1.

#### Giant Cobra Statue

The statue is not dangerous. A character can climb it with a successful DC 15 Strength (Athletics) check.

#### Wagons

The supply wagons in the northeast corner are empty.

