### 3. Hall of Serpents

>>The walls of this pillared hall bear reliefs of a giant serpent and its yuan-ti worshipers doing terrible things.
>>

The wall reliefs show the legend of Dendar the Night Serpent and the rise of **Ras Nsi**. Characters who examine them see the following tableaus:

- A giant serpent coils in the underworld, devouring the dreams of sleeping creatures.
- Yuan-ti terrorize Chultans, feeding their nightmares to the great serpent.
- A yuan-ti malison (**Ras Nsi**) wielding a flaming sword and wearing a gold crown set with a black opal leads the snake people to a great door to the underworld.
- The door to the underworld opens, releasing the serpent. It devours the sun and plunges the world into terror and darkness.

A character who searches the reliefs and succeeds on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check discovers that the black opal in **Ras Nsi**'s crown is a stone button. If the check succeeds by 5 or more, the character also sees tiny holes hidden among the scales of the Night Serpent carvings.

If a character presses the button in **Ras Nsi**'s crown, the carvings of the Night Serpent expel a soporific gas that fills the hallway and lingers for 1 minute. Any creature that moves into the gas or starts its turn inside it must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. The gas has no effect on creatures that cannot be poisoned, and creatures that fail the save fall unconscious for 1 hour. Using cloth or wax, characters can plug the hundreds of holes and prevent the gas from flowing out.

