### 5. Fenthaza's Quarters

Two **type 2 yuan-ti malisons** stand guard in the corridor outside this room. Combat in the hallway alerts the yuan-ti broodguards in area 6, which arrive in 1 round. The room can be described as follows:

>>A haze of incense lingers inside the chamber. Faded murals decorate the walls, and throw rugs and cushions lie scattered on the floor. An engraved chest rests in one corner next to a stone urn covered with snake carvings. A creature with the head and upper body of a dark-skinned woman and the lower body of a serpent coils in the middle of the room.
>>


**Fenthaza**, a **yuan-ti nightmare speaker** (see *appendix D*), lairs here. If an alarm is raised, **Fenthaza** relies on her guards to protect her while she releases the creature trapped in the stone urn (see below). **Fenthaza** tries to incapacitate interlopers and confine them to area 8. A particularly irksome foe might be shackled to the altar in area 6, where she can torture it at her leisure.

One of the more powerful figures in the temple, **Fenthaza** ruled the yuan-ti after their abomination leader died, and she performed the ritual that transformed **Ras Nsi** into a malison. Recently, her visions have led her to doubt **Ras Nsi**'s capabilities. In turn, **Ras Nsi** has started to cede power to his champion, **Sekelok** (area 12).

#### Stone Urn

The stone urn stands 4 feet tall and weighs 250 pounds. Its stone lid weighs 25 pounds. Trapped within the urn is an **air elemental** that obeys **Fenthaza**. If the urn's lid is removed by someone other than **Fenthaza**, the elemental flies out and attacks.

**Fenthaza** uses the elemental to hunt down and slay escaped prisoners. Once it has completed its task, the elemental always returns to its mistress.

#### Treasure

**Fenthaza** carries a ring of keys that unlock the manacles and shackles worn by the prisoners in area 8. She wears a holy symbol of Dendar the Night Serpent (25 gp) around her neck.

The chest is unlocked and contains 200 gp, a black leather quiver embroidered with a quartz-studded star map (75 gp), and a ceremonial dagger in a gold scabbard embossed with a scene of stampeding jungle animals (25 gp).

