### 6. Sacrificial Chamber

Unless they are lured to area 5 by sounds of battle, four **yuan-ti broodguards** (see *appendix D*) stand guard in this chamber, one in each corner.

>>A bloodstained altar stands in the middle of this room. It has shackles bolted to its top and niches carved into its sides. Housed in each niche is a human skull. Grooves run down the altar to gutters on the floor, allowing spilled blood to drain into the walls. Clay urns overflow with wet bones and gore.
>>

**Fenthaza** routinely sacrifices prisoners on the altar. As they die, their blood drains into the pool in area 9. A captured character who insults or otherwise annoys **Fenthaza** might end up here, shackled to the altar.

#### Chanting Skulls

The altar has six niches (one at each end and two on each long side). The human skull in each niche radiates an aura of abjuration magic under the scrutiny of a *detect magic* spell. If combat ensues here, the skulls start to chant in Abyssal. The skulls stop chanting when they are removed from their niches or when combat ends. Each skull has AC 9, 1 hit point, and immunity to poison and psychic damage. As long as one or more skulls are chanting, all yuan-ti in the room gain the following benefits:

- Resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks
- Advantage on saving throws against spells and other magical effects

#### Portcullis

A portcullis seals the entrance to area 8. A bronze lever is set into the wall south of the gate, out of sight of area 8. Lifting the lever raises the portcullis, and pulling the lever down causes the portcullis to drop.

