### 7. Evil Oracle

>>Steam rises from a stone basin filled with viscous black and purple liquid. Three serpentine creatures surround the pool. Each has the head and upper body of a dark-skinned woman and the lower body of a snake.
>>

**Yuan-ti priests** use the pool to commune with Dendar the Night Serpent. Three priests named Arakiti, Kultha, and Nyss are here at all times. They are loyal to **Fenthaza** and are **type 3 yuan-ti malisons**, with these changes:

- Add the following to the list of spells that the yuan-ti can innately cast at will: *eldritch blast* (2 beams; +5 to hit; 1d10 + 3 force damage per beam), *minor illusion*, and *poison spray*.
- They don't carry longbows.

#### Oracle Pool

The sludge within the pool conducts the reveries of Dendar the Night Serpent. A creature that enters the sludge or starts its turn in the pool takes 5 (1d10) psychic damage.

Any creature that gazes into the pool for more than a few seconds receives a brief, nightmarish vision. In this vision, the creature is being swallowed whole by a giant snake. When the vision ends, the creature must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw. On a failed save, the creature takes 5 (1d10) psychic damage and is afflicted with a random form of long-term madness (see "*Madness*" in chapter 8 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*).

> ##### Prisoners of the Yuan-ti
>
>Yuan-ti captives not put to work as slaves are imprisoned in cells until they can be sacrificed to Dendar the Night Serpent. Ten sample prisoners are described below, and you can create others. All prisoners wear manacles on their wrists and ankles (see area 8 for details). They've been stripped of their armor and weapons unless noted otherwise. All seek to escape the temple and make their way back to their homes or return to civilization.
>
>- Tahvo, a ten-year-old boy (LG male Chultan human noncombatant with AC 10 and 2 hit points), wears a flower garland and prays constantly to Tymora.
>- Sev, a **yuan-ti pureblood** who looks human except for his forked tongue, is suffering the effects of blue mist fever (see "Diseases") and throws stones at illusory blue monkeys only he can see.
>- Oloma Authdamar (CG female Turami human **scout**) is a former crew member of the Star Goddess (see chapter 2). She leapt from a porthole as the ship crashed, and the yuan-ti captured her in the jungle. Oloma carries a concealed dagger.
>- Pottery Shard, a **tabaxi minstrel** (see *appendix D*), was kidnapped while traveling from Port Nyanzaru to Fort Beluarian.
>- Gorvax, a **firenewt warrior** (see *appendix D*) is eager to escape and return to the Valley of Lost Honor.
>- A Harper named Lomar Dral (LG male Turami human **mage** with no spell slots remaining). While searching for **Artus Cimber** in Port Nyanzaru, he was drugged by the yuan-ti guide **Salida** and woke up a prisoner in Omu.
>- Mung, a Batiri goblin, was caught by the yuan-ti while foraging in the jungle. He is malnourished and suffers from 3 levels of exhaustion (see appendix A of the Player's Handbook).
>- Kanush Natombe (N male Chultan human **tribal warrior**) foolishly traveled to Omu to prove his worth to another man. Kanush is malnourished and suffers from 4 levels of exhaustion.
>- Zilla Atazi (LE female Chultan human **bandit**) was a pirate aboard the Dragonfang. Captain **Elok Jaharwon** threw Zilla overboard for insubordination. The yuan-ti captured her after she washed ashore.

