### 8. Prisoner Pits

An iron portcullis seals this chamber. The lever to raise it is located in area 6.

Characters captured by the yuan-ti are confined here. If this is how the characters first arrive, read:

>>The stench of sweat fills the humid air. You are chained to the wall of a dank, partially flooded pit. Other prisoners whimper nearby, lit by faint torchlight from the hole above.
>>

If characters peer into this room through the portcullis, use this description instead:

>>Muffled sobs and moans rise from four pits with circular iron grates covering them. A chain hooked to each grate stretches over a pulley bolted to the ceiling and coils around an iron winch set into a nearby wall. Iron manacles dangle from hooks on the south wall. To the north, a faintly glowing stone disk covers the floor of an otherwise empty alcove, and carved into the top of the disk is a serpentine symbol.
>>

The room contains four pits, each one a bell-shaped chamber 10 feet deep and 10 feet in diameter. The pits are flooded to a depth of 3 feet. Covering each pit is a 600-pound circular iron grate that requires one or more characters with a combined Strength score of at least 20 to lift. Alternatively, a character can use the iron winch near each pit to lift or lower its lid with a successful DC 12 Strength check. Climbing the slippery, sloped walls of a pit requires a DC 25 Strength (Athletics) check.

New prisoners are slapped in chains and dropped into a random pit. The yuan-ti strip all prisoners of their belongings, which are kept in the storeroom (area 13) until they are properly inventoried. If the yuan-ti need to get a prisoner out of the pit, they disconnect a hook from the lid and use it to hoist the prisoner out by the manacles.

Each pit contains 1d3 prisoners, and the "*Prisoners of the Yuan-ti*" sidebar describes several. If a player character dies, you could introduce a replacement character here as a prisoner hoping to be rescued.

Prisoners are forced to wear manacles on their wrists and shackles on their ankles. The manacles impose disadvantage on ability checks made to climb or swim. The shackles reduce a prisoner's walking speed by half and impose disadvantage on ability checks made to jump. **Fenthaza** (see area 5) carries the keys for these bindings. See "*Adventuring Gear*" in chapter 5 of the *Player's Handbook* for rules on breaking, escaping, and unlocking manacles (and shackles).

#### Teleporter

The engraved stone disk in the northern alcove is one of **Ras Nsi**'s magic teleporters (see "Teleporters").

