### 1. City Entrance

>>A guardhouse stands near the entrance to the city. Arrow slits are cut into its limestone walls, and a lopsided iron portcullis hangs over the gateway, beyond which you see an open plaza.
>>

If the characters enter the guardhouse, read:

>>Much of the interior has collapsed into rubble. Creepers cling to the walls, and high grasses sprout between the flagstones amid evidence of long-dead campfires. One wall is covered with graffiti—some words painted, others etched.
>>

The graffiti (written in Common) provides hints about the challenges that await:

>"Fear the fangs of **Ras Nsi**!"
>
>"Erik, I've gone in search of the nine shrines. V."
>
>"The puzzle cubes are the key."
>
>"Beware the frog monster!"
>
>"Who is Unkh?"
>
>"All hail the **King of Feathers**!"
>
>"The snakes are not what they seem."
>
>"Kubazan = bravery. Shagambi = wisdom. Moa = ?"
>

#### Ras Nsi's Scouts

Five **yuan-ti malisons** watch this entrance to the city from a small cave carved into the cliffside. A narrow goat track zigzags up the cliff to their hideout.

The group consists of two type 1 malisons, two type 2 malisons, and one type 3 malison. They follow the characters into Omu and shadow them through the streets. Their goal is to ambush the characters and capture at least one of them. If they remain out of sight, the yuan-ti launch their attack when the characters try to take their first long or short rest in the city.

#### Treasure

The type 3 malison's longbow is painted and carved like a serpent with tiny amber gemstones for eyes. The weapon is worth 250 gp as an art object.

