### 10. I'jin's Shrine

>>Cracked monoliths flank the entrance to this ruin. Saw-edged ferns grow in the courtyard between broken flagstones. A pair of stone doors provide entry to a large, flat-roofed ruin.
>>

The shrine to the trickster god I'jin (represented by an almiraj) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods.

#### 10A. Shrine Entrance

A harmless **almiraj** (see *appendix D*) lives in a burrow underneath the courtyard and goes to ground as soon as it senses intruders. When a character approaches the door, read:

>>Sculptural reliefs decorate the doors of this shrine. The carvings show a horned rabbit charging a small, feral-looking bear with sharp claws. A cuneiform message is etched above the doors.
>>

The message is written in Old Omuan and reads, "I'jin teaches us to take the path least expected." I'jin taught her followers to live unpredictable lives, always changing course and never sticking to a plan. Characters would do well to heed her message inside the shrine.

Smaller inscriptions hidden underneath the carvings tell the story of how I'jin (an almiraj) earned the ire of Obo'laka (a zorbo) by spoiling a stew prepared for the god Ubtao. For details, see "Legend of the Nine Gods."

#### 10B. Puzzle Floor

>>A ten-foot-wide hallway strikes off into the gloom. Carved tiles depicting various beasts decorate the hallway floor.
>>

Give the players a copy of handout 14 in appendix E.

Thirty-two tiles cover a 20-foot-long, 10-foot-wide stretch of the hallway. Each tile is 5 feet square, and the tiles are arranged in eight rows of four. The beasts depicted on the tiles are almiraj (see *appendix D*), dragonflies, eagles, giraffes, monkeys, tigers, warthogs, and zebras.

***Poison Darts.*** To cross the hallway safely, a character must avoid stepping on the same animal more than once. If more than 20 pounds of pressure is exerted on the wrong picture tile, four poison darts shoot from holes in the walls. Each dart makes a ranged weapon attack (+5 to hit) against a random target within 10 feet of the triggering tile. A single creature can be attacked by multiple darts. A creature hit by a dart takes 2 (1d4) piercing damage and must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, taking 7 (2d6) poison damage on a failed save, or half as much damage on a successful one. A character can spot the holes with a successful DC 13 Wisdom (Perception) check. Stuffing the holes with cloth or wax prevents the darts from launching.

Characters can avoid the trap by flying or teleporting across the hallway, or by using *spider climb* spells to crawl along the walls or ceiling. The walls are too smooth to climb otherwise.

***Almiraj Tiles.*** A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of abjuration magic around each almiraj tile. A creature that steps on an almiraj tile gains 2d10 temporary hit points. Once a tile has bestowed this benefit, it loses its magic until the next dawn. Casting *dispel magic* on a tile has the same effect.

#### 10C. Labyrinth

Traps are riddled throughout this dusty maze. Hidden pressure plates in the floor are located in the positions marked X on the shrine map. If more than 20 pounds of pressure is exerted on a pressure plate, a sharpened axe blade swings from a hidden compartment in the ceiling. The blade makes a melee attack (+6 to hit) against any creature standing on the pressure plate. On a hit, the target takes 8 (1d8 + 4) slashing damage. A character searching for traps spots a pressure plate and ceiling compartment with a successful DC 16 Wisdom (Perception) check. Wedging an iron spike or other object under a plate prevents the trap from triggering. Using *thieves' tools*, a character can dismantle an axe blade with a successful DC 15 Dexterity check. If the check fails by 5 or more, the trap triggers and makes an attack against the character with disadvantage.

#### 10D. Puzzle Cube

The doors of this chamber are not locked or trapped.

>>A shaft of natural light spills from a tiny square hole in the ceiling onto a carved stone pedestal. An ornate stone cube rests on its surface.
>>

The cube is I'jin's puzzle cube. It is not trapped and can be safely removed from the pedestal.

