### 11. Chwinga Wagon

>>An overturned wagon lies on the street ahead. Rotting flower petals litter the ground around it, and bees nest in its broken wheels. A freshly cut garland of jungle flowers hangs from the wagon's tongue.
>>

The wagon is home to a **chwinga** (see *appendix D*). The vegepygmies in the area are afraid of the chwinga and bring it gifts of flowers to appease its wrath. In truth, the chwinga is harmless.

The chwinga uses its magic to hide in a mossy stone disk underneath the cart (see "Queen's Decree" below). Characters who approach the cart notice that the area is unusually lush and full of life. If they leave an offering, the chwinga timidly presents itself to them. If not, the chwinga's natural curiosity forces it to shadow the characters and spy on them.

The scent of honey foreshadows the chwinga's appearance, and harmless bees follow it around. It has a fascination for humanoid hair and is likely to latch onto a bearded dwarf or a character with curly tresses. While the chwinga accompanies the party, any vegepygmies that encounter the group flee as soon as they discern the chwinga's presence. The chwinga's affinity for the natural world keeps it from following characters into shrines or dungeons.

#### Queen's Decree

If the characters look under the wagon, read:

>>A moss-covered stone disk lies half-buried in the mud underneath the wagon. Concentric rings of inscriptions cover its surface—some written in Common and others etched in jagged cuneiform.
>>

The tablet is a proclamation from an Omuan queen to her rivals in Mezro. The Mezroans couldn't read the Omuans' native script, so the tablet contains the same message written both in Common and Old Omuan. It reads, "Queen Napaka proclaims that the free people of Omu fear nothing. Brave new gods protect us, as Ubtao did before but does no longer. Omu will rise again, and Napaka shall reclaim all that is hers by right of conquest."

Using the tablet, the characters can translate any message written in Old Omuan. The tablet is 3 feet in diameter and weighs 200 pounds, but characters with ink and parchment can copy it or take a rubbing. If the characters move the tablet from the cart, they end up taking the chwinga with it.

