### 12. Wongo's Shrine

>>Carvings of monkeys hanging by their tails decorate two cracked obelisks that stand before a shrine enclosed by broken walls. Past the obelisks is a courtyard filled with horsetails and arum lilies. Five archways open into darkness at the base of the ruin. Mounted above the central arch is a stone plaque bearing a cuneiform inscription.
>>

The shrine to the trickster god Wongo (represented by a su-monster) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods. The inscription above the central arch is written in Old Omuan and reads as follows: "Better to be Wongo's friend than his enemy."

***Portcullises.*** Portcullises are raised into the lintels above four of the five entrance corridors. When a character claims the puzzle cube from area 12B, the portcullises slam shut and seal off these corridors. Each portcullis weighs 600 pounds and can be lifted by one or more characters with a combined Strength score of at least 20. A character can prevent a portcullis from dropping by jamming it with at least two iron spikes.

#### 12A. Cracked Obelisks

Creatures that pass between these two obelisks hear in their heads a cacophony of shrieking monkeys. The sound fades once the creatures move elsewhere. The shrieks are annoying but harmless. The obelisks are not magical, and their effect can't be dispelled.

#### 12B. Test of Friendship

>>A ten-foot-tall stone statue of an evil-looking monkey balances on its tail atop a stone dais in the middle of this twenty-foot-high chamber. The statue's limbs are splayed, with hands and feet cupped. On the wall behind, a sculpted relief shows a monkey-like creature tearing into a giant serpent. Cuneiform inscriptions are carved above and below the relief. Four masks of painted stone protrude from the walls; they depict the heads of a lion, a **zebra**, a boar, and a vulture.
>>

The wall relief shows the trickster god Wongo (a su-monster) fighting his hated enemy, Moa (a jaculi). Inscriptions in Old Omuan explain how Moa betrayed Wongo to the god Ubtao (see "Legend of the Nine Gods").

***Statue and Puzzle Cube.*** A *detect magic* spell or similar effect reveals an aura of conjuration magic around the statue, which is easy to climb. A character who searches the statue's base uncovers the following inscription written in Old Omuan: "Wongo's friend knows where to pour the water." Wongo's "friend" (the vulture) can be identified by figuring out the logic puzzle written above the masks in the viewing corridors (area 12C).

When a character pours a pint or more of water into the statue's right hand or one of its cupped feet, the liquid sizzles and transforms into 1d3 **steam mephits** that fight until destroyed. The statue can create up to six steam mephits in this fashion, after which no more mephits can be created until the next dawn. A steam mephit reduced to 0 hit points loses its form and disappears.

When a pint or more of water is poured into the statue's cupped left hand, Wongo's puzzle cube appears by magic on the statue's head. When the puzzle cube appears, the character who poured the water hears a snarling, disembodied voice say, "Take the prize and curse your friends, or fight my children to claim it. What is your choice?" If a character takes the puzzle cube, the masks on the walls deliver their curses (see area 12C). If no character takes the cube immediately, the portcullises slam shut over the entrance corridors in area 12A as four **su-monsters** (see *appendix D*) are teleported into the room, clinging to the statue like startled children to a protective parent. The su-monsters leap down and attack. Once the su-monsters appear, taking the puzzle cube doesn't trigger the masks' curses. The summoned su-monsters are real, and their bodies don't disappear when they die.

***Masks.*** Characters who examine the stone masks on the walls see that their eyes are open holes, allowing one to peer into the adjoining corridors (area 12C). The masks are extensions of the walls and can't be removed without destroying them.

#### 12C. Viewing Corridors

Each of these four corridors ends in a molded stone mask that juts into area 12B. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of transmutation magic around each mask. Inscriptions in Old Omuan are carved into the walls above the masks on this side.

>**Lion Mask (L**). The inscription above this mask reads, "I ate one of the boar's friends." A character who peers through the mask sees a ray of blue light falling from the ceiling onto the right hand of the statue in area 12B.
>
>**Boar Mask (B**). The inscription above this mask reads, "The vulture is lucky to be alive." Through this mask, a character sees a ray of blue light falling onto the left foot of the statue in area 12B.
>
>**Zebra Mask (Z**). The inscription above this mask reads, "My only friend starved to death." Through this mask, a character sees a ray of blue light falling onto the right foot of the statue in area 12B.
>
>**Vulture Mask (V**). The inscription above this mask reads, "One of the others has no friends." Through this mask, a character sees a ray of blue light falling onto the left hand of the statue in area 12B.
>

When the masks deliver their curses (see area 12B), any character who has looked through a mask in the last hour must succeed on a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or transform into the creature depicted on the last mask they looked through. This curse functions as a *polymorph* spell and ends after 24 hours.

A **zebra** has the same statistics as a **riding horse**. Statistics for the **boar**, **lion**, and **vulture** also appear in the *Monster Manual*.

