### 13. Amphitheater

>>A ruined amphitheater looms over the surrounding buildings. Vines cling to its steps, and animal statues line its stands. The muddy ground outside is stripped clean of vegetation. An eerie silence hangs over the area. No birds cry, no insects chirp, nothing stirs.
>>

The amphitheater is the lair of the **King of Feathers**, a powerful tyrannosaurus rex with magical abilities. As they approach the amphitheater, characters can't fail to notice giant clawed footprints in the mud. From toe to heel, each footprint spans over 5 feet. Closer to the ruin, they find long, slender feathers in scarlet, orange, and green hues, and heaps of dung large enough to bury a dwarf.

The amphitheater is an open-air, semicircular structure with tiered seats overlooking a ruined stage. The Omuans used it for public debates and plays both comic and tragic. Narrow passages and rubble-strewn chambers spread beneath the grandstands. This darkened maze is home to five **deinonychuses** (see *appendix D*). While the tyrannosaurus is out hunting, the deinonychuses leave their lair and prowl throughout the amphitheater, attacking other creatures on sight. Strewn about their lair are Omuan relics (see "Treasure" below).

#### Hail to the King

During the day, there is a 50 percent chance that the **King of Feathers** rests in the amphitheater. At night, this chance decreases to 25 percent. If the beast is out hunting, there is a cumulative 20 percent chance per hour of it returning. The **King of Feathers** is a feathered **tyrannosaurus rex**, with these changes:

- The **King of Feathers** is a monstrosity with 200 hit points.
- It can see invisible creatures and objects as if they were visible.
- It can innately cast *misty step* at will, requiring no components. Its spellcasting ability is Wisdom.
- It has the Legendary Resistance trait and the Summon Swarm action option (see below). It can't use the Summon Swarm action while it is grappling a creature with its jaws.

>***Legendary Resistance (3/Day).*** If the **King of Feathers** fails a saving throw, it can choose to succeed instead.

>***Summon Swarm (Recharge 5–6).*** The **King of Feathers** exhales a **swarm of insects (wasps)** that forms in a space within 20 feet of it. The swarm acts as an ally of the **King of Feathers** and takes its turn immediately after it. The swarm disperses after 1 minute.

#### Treasure

A search of the rooms under the amphitheater uncovers an electrum platter inscribed with images of Chultan feasting rituals (25 gp), an Omuan death mask made of painted gold (250 gp), and a *helm of telepathy*.

> ##### The King of Feathers
>
>The monstrous tyrannosaurus known as the **King of Feathers** is the undisputed lord of Omu. Most other dwellers of the Forbidden City live in fear of its thunderous approach and steer well clear of the amphitheater, its lair.
>
>The **King of Feathers** can be encountered anywhere within Omu. At first, tease the characters with glimpses of it moving through distant fog or have them hear its roar echoing over the ruins. It might appear while the heroes are exploring the ruins or taking a rest. Alternatively, it might interrupt a fight that's going badly for the party (or is too easy).
>

