### 15. Ruined Bazaar

>>A derelict market hall stands on the street corner ahead. Frayed cloth awnings hang in tatters above a broad alley lined with stalls.
>>

Kobolds live in hidden cellars underneath the ruined market hall and have set six traps throughout the bazaar. A character has a cumulative 20 percent chance of finding a trap for each minute spent searching the bazaar. When a trap is found, have the character make a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. If the check succeeds, the character spots the trap (a hidden, spring-loaded catapult) and its triggering mechanism (a tripwire or pressure plate) without triggering it. Once spotted, the trap is easily disarmed or avoided (no check required). A failed check indicates that the character accidentally set off the trap, which duplicates the Weapon Invention attack of a **kobold inventor** (see *appendix D*).

After the characters find three traps, they spot a **kobold** disappearing down a well-hidden staircase on the outskirts of the bazaar. If they follow the creature, it leads them to the cellars under the marketplace.

#### Kobold Cellars

The kobolds live in cellars not shown on map 3.1. All but one of the staircases leading into their lair has been caved in or blocked with heaps of furniture. As the characters make their way through the cellars, read:

>>Guttering torches cast dim light under the arches of a wine cellar roughly 20 feet square. The cracked ceiling is 8 feet high. In an alcove on the far side of the room, a pile of treasure twinkles in the torchlight. Kobolds gather around it.
>>

Kakarol, a **kobold scale sorcerer**, rests on the pile of treasure. Two **kobold inventors** and ten **kobolds** are also present. Statistics for the kobold scale sorcerer and kobold inventor appear in *appendix D*.

The kobolds rally to defend Kakarol. While they fight off intruders, Kakarol and his inventors make ranged attacks from the rear. If things look dire, Kakarol throws himself at the characters' mercy.

#### Treasure

Kakarol wears a torn, 6-foot-long tapestry of a macaw decorated with garnet beads (75 gp) as a cloak. His hoard contains 30 gp, 250 sp, 1,800 cp, a colored glass statuette of a dragonfly (25 gp), four bloodstones (50 gp each), and a *potion of greater healing*.

#### Development

Kakarol believes that **Acererak** is going to transform him into a dragon. As such, the kobold is arrogant, greedy, and vain—traits that can be used against him. He knows nothing of **Acererak**'s true aims, nor has he been told about the Soulmonger. Kakarol's kobolds spy on most other factions in the city. If gifted with enough treasure, he could become a useful early warning system for the adventurers.

