### 16. Papazotl's Shrine

>>Crocodiles wallow in this muddy lake bed, from which rises a walled ruin. Two columns flank the entrance, carved with images of a long-legged bird with a needle-like beak. At the building's front, slimy steps ascend to an entry arch.
>>

The shrine to the trickster god Papazotl (represented by an eblis) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods. The water around the shrine is 2 feet deep.

#### 16A. Shrine Entrance

A plaque above the shrine entrance displays an inscription in Old Omuan: "Papazotl teaches us to bow before no one." Characters who remember the cult's motto gain an edge when they explore Papazotl's tomb in chapter 5.

Four hungry **crocodiles** lurk in the shrine's flooded courtyard. These creatures are the offspring of a **giant crocodile** that nests to the rear of the shrine. If the characters attack the crocodiles, their mother joins the fray 2 rounds later.

#### 16B. Mosaic Floor

>>Moss clings to the stonework throughout this hall. The mosaic floor depicts a tall bird using its long, pointy beak to pin a monstrous frog-like creature with tentacles sprouting from its shoulders. Set into the far wall is a set of heavy stone doors.
>>

The mosaic shows the trickster god Papazotl (an eblis) fighting his enemy, Kubazan (a froghemoth). Inscriptions in Old Omuan surround the mosaic. If the characters translate these, they learn the story of how Kubazan disobeyed Papazotl and was cursed (see "Legend of the Nine Gods").

The doors are not locked but hang heavy on their hinges. Each door weighs 600 pounds, so one or more characters must have a combined Strength score of 20 or higher to force it open.

#### 16C. Chamber of Command

>>An empty pedestal stands in the middle of this chamber. Six statues face it from alcoves on the walls. They depict bare-chested humans with the heads of different animals. From left to right, the heads resemble those of a lizard, a jaguar, a lobster, a toucan, a bat, and a frog.
>>

A character who examines the pedestal finds a riddle inscribed on its base. (Give players a copy of handout 15 in *appendix E*.) Unlike other inscriptions in the trial chambers, this riddle is etched in Common:

>>Comes with sunshine
>>
>>Leaves with night
>>
>>Hides in darkness
>>
>>Does not bite
>>
>>Always joined to its caster
>>
>>Never strays from its master
>>

The answer to the riddle ("a shadow") is a clue to finding the secret chamber (area 16D). If a character holds a light source close to the statue with the head of a bat, a crawlway appears in its shadow. The crawlway entrance is otherwise hidden behind an illusory wall that can be dispelled with a *dispel magic* spell. The crawlway, which is 2 feet wide and 3 feet high, leads to area 16D.

***Puzzle Cube.*** If a character searches the pedestal, they discover the outline of a stone hatch on its upper surface. No matter how hard the characters try, they cannot pry the hatch open. Papazotl's puzzle cube within only emerges when all six statues are blindfolded (see area 16D). When this occurs, read:

>>The pedestal rotates, and an ornate stone cube emerges from a hatch on its surface.
>>

The characters can now safely take the puzzle cube.

#### 16D. Hidden Room

>>A strange grid is etched into the far wall of this stone cell.
>>

When a character enters this chamber, give the players a copy of handout 16 in *appendix E*. This grid is a puzzle key. If the letters from the riddle in area 16C are entered into the grid (minus spaces), the letters in the darkened squares spell out "cover eyes." This phrase provides a clue to obtaining the puzzle cube in area 16C.

