### 18. Nangnang's Shrine

>>Monoliths adorned with prancing, frog-like figures rise from the swamp. Beyond, a ruined edifice shaped like an arrowhead squats in the muddy water. Bushes and trees grow from its roof. At the pointed front of the building, steps ascend to a stone door caked in slime.
>>

The shrine to the trickster god Nangnang (represented by a grung) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods. The water around the shrine is 2 feet deep.


#### 18A. Shrine Entrance

The shrine is home to a gold-skinned **grung elite warrior** named Chief **Yorb**. Four orange-skinned **grung elite warriors** wallow in the flooded courtyard with **Yorb** and his trained **hadrosaurus** mount. One red-skinned **grung wildling** and seven green-skinned **grungs** lurk on the shrine's 20-foot-high rooftop. See *appendix D* for these creatures' statistics.

The grungs on the roof unleash arrows to ward off intruders. If the intruders fight back, more green-skinned **grungs** close in from nearby buildings, with 1d4 appearing at the end of each round until twenty have arrived.

The grungs are jumpy and distrustful of strangers. At first, **Yorb** is more interested in scaring away intruders than he is talking with them. If the characters rescue his favored son in area 5 and have the means to communicate with the chief, **Yorb** opens up to them. He currently has no idea his son is missing.

The grungs worship the dead trickster god Nangnang. If the characters enter into negotiations with **Yorb**, he can recount the full legend of Omu's nine trickster gods (see "Legend of the Nine Gods").

***Shrine Doors.*** The doors to the shrine stand ajar. If the tide of battle turns against Chief **Yorb**, he retreats into the shrine with his elite guards and bars the doors. A character can force open the barred doors with a successful DC 25 Strength check.

#### 18B. Chamber of Greed

>>Torches shed light over rooms filled of treasure: chests heaped with coins, polished amphorae, strings of pearls, and ornate pieces of armor. Set into the floor in front of another double door is a mosaic depicting a frog-like humanoid beating a leopard that has snakes emerging from its shoulders. Cuneiform inscriptions are woven above and below the combatants.
>>

The inscriptions are written in Old Omuan. The one above the mosaic reads, "Nangnang teaches us to serve only ourselves." The inscriptions below tell how Nangnang (a grung) stole a spear belonging to Shagambi (a kamadan). For details, see "Legend of the Nine Gods."

While the treasures remain in the shrine, they look and feel real. If a character removes a treasure from the shrine, the illusion drops and the treasure reverts to its true form: gold coins become disks of tin, silver decanters revert back to clay jugs, and glittering armor becomes rusty scrap metal. A *detect magic* spell reveals that the treasures radiate auras of illusion magic while in the shrine. None of these "treasures" are valuable.

***Locked Doors.*** The stone doors to area 18C are locked, with neither keyhole nor handle. Above the double door, the following message is carved into the stonework in Old Omuan: "Whoever among you is the richest, bring me your gifts." To date, even Chief **Yorb** hasn't learned what lies on the other side of the doors. A *detect magic* spell reveals an aura of divination magic around the doors. The doors swing open if a creature approaches them while carrying one or more of the treasures found in the shrine. However, if another creature in the shrine is also carrying such treasure, the doors remains closed. A *knock* spell also opens the doors.

#### 18C. Puzzle Cube

>>In the middle of this dusty room, a stone cube rests on a pedestal carved and painted to resemble a squat, humanoid frog.
>>

Nangnang's puzzle cube can be safely removed from its pedestal.

