### 19. Obo'laka's Shrine

>>A pair of needlelike columns mark the entrance to a walled ruin. In the courtyard beyond, banyan roots envelop a squat building. The stone doors that seal the entrance are carved with images of snarling bears with long, sharp claws.
>>

The shrine to the trickster god Obo'laka (represented by a zorbo) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods.

#### 19A. Shrine Entrance

A plaque above the shrine's entrance bears the following message in Old Omuan: "Obo'laka teaches us to tread warily and stay in the light." This message sheds light on how to obtain Obo'laka's puzzle cube. The doors are slightly ajar and have rusty hinges that squeal loudly when the doors are opened.

When the characters arrive, four **zorbos** (see *appendix D*) are lurking around the perimeter of the shrine. They investigate the sound of the squealing doors but won't attack large groups, preferring to pick off loners and stragglers.

#### 19B. Gallery of Carvings

>>The walls of this dark corridor are covered with painted reliefs showing Omuan people hunting, harvesting fruit, planting crops, crafting weapons, feasting, fighting, weaving, and skinning animals. Eight empty torch brackets protrude from the walls under the reliefs.
>>

To disarm the puzzle cube trap in area 19E, the magic torches from that room must be placed in the brackets in this hall.

***Barred Secret Door.*** A character who searches the walls and succeeds on a DC 17 Wisdom (Perception) check spots a secret door just inside the entrance. The door is triple-barred from the west side. It can't be opened manually from this side, though three *knock* spells will do the trick.

#### 19C. Sun Pool

>>A glorious sun is carved on the ceiling, directly above a pool of still water. The ceiling reflected in the pool doesn't show a sun carving, but rather a moon carving.
>>

The pool is a magic portal that connects to the pool in area 19D. Characters who immerse themselves in the pool surface in area 19D.

#### 19D. Moon Pool

If the characters enter this room via the pool, read:

>>A full moon is carved on the ceiling here, directly above the pool. The walls are decorated with reliefs of the Omuan people carrying out daily chores.
>>

The ceiling reflected in the pool doesn't show a moon carving, but rather a sun carving. To travel back to area 19C, a character must duck under the pool's surface.

***Locked Secret Door.*** A secret door in the south wall requires a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check to spot. Even when found, there's no obvious way to open the door, although a *knock* spell works.

A character who studies the wall reliefs and succeeds on a DC 10 Intelligence (Investigation) check observes that one of the figures on the wall is crafting a key. If the character pushes the key, the secret door pops open, revealing a dusty, web-filled tunnel (area 19F) beyond.

#### 19E. Chamber of Sacraments

>>Eight torches illuminate this room. The light washes over a floor mosaic showing two creatures locked in combat: a small bear with sharp claws and a rabbit with a spiral horn on its forehead. In the middle of the room, a robed figure stands next to a waist-high pedestal, atop which rests a stone cube. The figure is bald and has one hand on the cube. It takes a moment to realize that the figure is a statue.
>>

The floor mosaic shows Obo'laka (a zorbo) fighting I'jin (an almiraj). Inscriptions in Old Omuan underneath the mosaic explain how I'jin ruined Obo'laka's attempt to placate Ubtao (see "Legend of the Nine Gods").

The statue is a petrified Red Wizard (LE male Thayan human **mage**) named Voj. He failed to disarm the puzzle cube trap before touching it, and its magic turned him to stone. If a *greater restoration* spell or similar magic is cast on Voj, he reverts to flesh, realizes he's not alone, and attacks anyone who would deny him the cube.

Voj takes orders from Zagmira and knows the legend of Obo'laka and I'jin. If the characters defeat him, they find some valuables on his person (see "Treasure" below) that aren't obtainable while Voj is petrified.

***Puzzle Cube.*** Any creature that touches the puzzle cube must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or be petrified. Even on a success, a creature holding the cube must repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns until the puzzle cube is removed from the shrine. When the torches in this room are inserted into the empty brackets in area 19B, Obo'laka's puzzle cube can be handled safely.

***Torches.*** Each torch burns with a flame that never wears its wood down. The torches can be extinguished, but they reignite every time they reenter this chamber. Relighting a torch by any other method proves impossible. If all eight torches are inserted into the empty brackets in area 19B, the puzzle cube can be handled safely.

***Treasure.*** Voj carries an *immovable rod*, a leather pouch containing three tiger eye gemstones (10 gp each), and a red, leather-bound spellbook, which contains all the spells he has prepared.

#### 19F. Secret Passage

>>This dark passage is choked with dust and webs. It's clear that no one has been through here in years.
>>

Traversing this corridor is the easiest way to transport the torches in area 19E to area 19B without dousing their flames in the pools. The secret door leading to area 19B has three wooden bars across it. Once the bars are removed, the door pulls open easily.

