### 2. Walled Compound

>>Smoke drifts lazily from a walled compound. The gate lies in splinters, and scorch marks deface the buildings. Near the center of the compound is a plaza littered with charred human corpses. One of the corpses is being torn apart by a pack of wild dogs.
>>

The Red Wizards seized this compound as their base of operations in Omu, but yuan-ti attacked and nearly wiped them out. Thirty corpses are scattered across the compound—the remains of three Red Wizards, twenty human mercenaries, and seven bearers hired in Port Nyanzaru. The yuan-ti looted all the supplies they found and stole their enemies' weapons. Six wild dogs (use **jackal** statistics) feed on one of the Red Wizards. The dogs pose no threat if the characters keep their distance.

#### Spirit Pole

The yuan-ti burned their dead comrades and arranged their bones into a spirit pole. Characters who explore the compound discover this effigy:

>>A glaive has been thrust into remains of a burned-out pyre. Charred snake skulls and blackened inhuman vertebrae are lashed to the spear. On a wall nearby, a symbol has been daubed in ash: a snake curled in a spiral, gripping a circle in its jaws.
>>

With a successful DC 15 Intelligence (Religion) check, a character recognizes the sigil on the wall as the symbol of Dendar the Night Serpent devouring the world.

#### Orvex Ocrammas


During the attack, an explosion buried a member of the Red Wizards' expedition under a fallen section of wall. **Orvex** is dying of thirst and exhaustion. As characters search the compound, they hear him calling out for help from under the rubble. If the characters free Orvex, he begs to join their band until he finds sanctuary.

Orvex serves as scribe and translator for the Red Wizards. He's a pragmatic, balding human in his early forties who serves the Red Wizards because, as he puts it, they pay well. **Orvex** has the statistics of a **spy**, with these changes:

- Orvex is neutral.
- He has 3 hit points remaining and 3 levels of exhaustion (see appendix A of the *Player's Handbook* for exhaustion effects).
- He speaks Common and Grung.

If the characters befriend Orvex, he can help them forge a truce with any surviving Red Wizards. Orvex can translate Old Omuan, and his studies of Omu's carvings taught him the legend of the nine trickster gods (see "Legend of the Nine Gods"), which Orvex is happy to recount once he's fully healed and rested.

Despite the obvious risks, Orvex looks forward to exploring more of the city and unlocking its secrets. If he's still with the characters when they retrieve all nine puzzle cubes, he jumps at the chance to accompany them on their descent into the Tomb of the Nine Gods.

