### 20. Royal Palace

>>Thousands of bats swirl above a great ruin. Behind a 15-foot-high circular wall, you see crumbling arcades, vine-choked statues, empty plazas, and buildings overgrown with banyan roots. Streets that aren't flooded are choked with rubble.
>>

The palace looks abandoned and has been looted of all treasure. Snakes slithering through the rubble are mostly harmless (but see area 20A and 20B below). The bats flying above the ruin are also harmless.

The Fane of the Night Serpent (see chapter 4) lies under the palace. There are two entrances: a large entrance to the north (area 20A) and a hidden entrance to the south (area 20B). Watching over each entrance are three type 1 **yuan-ti malisons** in snake form. They slither out of hiding, revert to their true forms, and attack anyone who isn't accompanied by yuan-ti.

#### 20A. Main Entrance to the Fane

The north entrance to the Fane of the Night Serpent is easy to find:

>>A worked tunnel descends into the earth here. Muddy cart-tracks wind back and forth from the entrance.
>>

The tunnel slopes down to area 1 of the yuan-ti temple (see chapter 4).

#### 20B. Secret Entrance to the Fane

The south entrance to the Fane of the Night Serpent is hidden behind palms and thorny bushes. Yuan-ti who pass through here always try to cover their tracks. To find the entrance, a character must succeed on a DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) or Wisdom (Survival) check while searching the vicinity.

>>Lifting aside the palm fronds, you uncover a narrow, rough-hewn passage descending into the earth.
>>

This passage connects to area 23 of the yuan-ti temple (see chapter 4).
