### 3. Kubazan's Shrine

>>A rectangular pool of murky water stretches before this vine-draped shrine. Rope bridges that once spanned the water float on the surface, tangled with other debris. The shards of a toppled monolith form stepping stones to the middle of the pool, where a statue of a stone frog rises above the water.
>>

The shrine to the trickster god Kubazan (represented as a **froghemoth**) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods.

#### 3A. Froghemoth Pool

This pool is 6 feet deep and clouded with mud and algae. A character who succeeds on a DC 14 Wisdom (Perception) check spots the eyestalk of a **froghemoth** (see *appendix D*) sticking out of the pool. The froghemoth attacks anyone who disturbs the water or tries to reach the shrine, heaving itself from the pool to pursue prey.

The shattered monolith is slippery with moss, and the rotted rope bridges sink as soon as anyone steps on them. Any character who jumps across the stepping stones must succeed on a DC 10 Dexterity (Acrobatics) check to keep from falling in the pool.

***Stone Key.*** A character who examines the mouth of the frog statue spots a stone key set into an indentation on the statue's tongue. This key opens the locked gate at area 3B.

#### 3B. Locked Gate

Carved into the lintel above this locked gate is an inscription written in Old Omuan: "Kubazan urges us to tread without fear and to give back as much as we take." A character who heeds the words gains some insight into the trial that awaits in area 3C.

To pick the lock, a character with *thieves' tools* must succeed on a DC 20 Dexterity check. Whether the check succeeds or fails, a *glyph of warding* spell targets the character with a *fear* spell (save DC 15). The glyph doesn't trigger if the door is unlocked using the stone key from the froghemoth pool (area 3A).

#### 3C. Chamber of Bravery

>>Steps descend to a ledge overlooking a pit of sharpened stakes. An alcove on the far wall holds a pedestal with a stone cube resting on it. A relief carved into the back of the alcove shows a monstrous frog with tentacles fighting a crane. Wooden beams radiate from the walls at floor height, with four-foot gaps between them. Carved frog heads extrude from the walls above the beams.
>>

The wall relief shows Kubazan (a **froghemoth**) fighting Papazotl (an **eblis**). An inscription written in Old Omuan tells how Kubazan earned his tentacles from the god Ubtao (see "Legend of the Nine Gods").

***Spiked Pit.*** The pit is 30 feet deep. A creature that falls into the pit takes 10 (3d6) bludgeoning damage from the fall and must make a DC 12 Dexterity saving throw. On a failed save, 1d4 stakes impale the creature for an additional 1d6 piercing damage per stake.

***Wooden Beams.*** A creature can move around the perimeter of the room by hopping from beam to beam. To hop onto a beam without falling, a creature must succeed on a Dexterity (Acrobatics) check, the DC of which is 5 + the distance (in feet) between the two beams. When weight is applied to and lifted from a beam, it retracts and becomes flush with the wall, preventing it from being used again. The beams reset to their original positions after all of them have retracted into the walls.

***Puzzle Cube.*** If Kubazan's puzzle cube is removed from its pedestal, the gate in area 3B slams shut and locks. Checks made to pick the gate lock from within the shrine have disadvantage. At the same time, the carved frog heads on the walls open their mouths, belch forth enough poisonous gas to fill the shrine, and then close their mouths. Placing an object of equal weight to the puzzle cube (half a pound) on the pedestal prevents the gate closure and the release of gas.

The gas fills the shrine for 1 minute, then dissipates. Any creature that starts its turn inside the shrine while the gas is present must succeed on a DC 12 Constitution saving throw or take 10 (3d6) poison damage. Creatures are affected even if they hold their breath or don't need to breathe.

