### 4. Shagambi's Shrine

>>A ruined shrine stands at the heart of this walled compound. Tall monoliths flank the entrance, decorated with images of a jaguar with six snakes sprouting from its shoulders. A stone door is set into the shrine beyond.
>>

The shrine to the trickster god Shagambi (represented as a **kamadan**) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods.

Two mated **kamadans** (see *appendix D*) use a cart at the back of the shrine as their lair. If they hear intruders approaching the shrine, the kamadans try to ambush them. The kamadans fight tooth and claw to protect their three young cubs. Kamadan cubs are noncombatants that look like baby leopards and grow to adult size within a year. The cubs' snakes won't sprout from their shoulders for another 6 months. Characters can capture the cubs and spend months trying to domesticate them, but the kamadans turn on their would-be masters once they reach adulthood in a year.

#### 4A. Shrine Entrance

Flanking the entrance are two stone monoliths, each one 15 feet tall and draped in vines. Characters who examine the carvings uncover an inscription written in Old Omuan: "Shagambi teaches us to fight evil with honor." Reliefs on the monoliths show Shagambi overseeing Chultan warriors as they train with spears and swords.

The door to the shrine is not locked, but it hangs heavy on its hinges. It weighs 600 pounds, so one or more characters must have a combined Strength score of 20 or higher to push it open.

#### 4B. Arena Gallery

When one or more characters enter the shrine, read:

>>Steps descend into a fifteen-foot-high, moss-covered room. Four statues of Omuan warriors stand in alcoves to either side, overlooking a barred gladiatorial pit in the floor. Each statue looks like it was meant to hold a spear, but its weapon is missing. On the far side of the chamber, a stone pedestal stands conspicuously bare. A relief on the wall behind it shows a monstrous jaguar with six snakes protruding from its shoulders, fighting off a squat, frog-like humanoid armed with a spear. To the left of the relief is a narrow tunnel with stairs leading down.
>>

The statues can't be moved from their alcoves, and they are impervious to damage and spells. The tunnel in the north wall slopes down to the bottom of the gladiatorial pit (area 4D) and leads to a cellblock beyond (area 4C).

The wall relief depicts Shagambi (a kamadan) fighting Nangnang (a grung). Just below, an inscription written in Old Omuan tells the story of how Nangnang stole Shagambi's spear (see "Legend of the Nine Gods"). With a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check, a character notices tiny holes in the relief. Stuffing the holes with cloth or wax prevents the poison gas from penetrating through when the pedestal is disturbed (see below).

***Pedestal.*** The pedestal is a 4-foot-high stone cylinder that is impervious to damage and spells. Close inspection reveals a stone hatch in the top of it. Any physical attempt to force open the hatch releases a cloud of gas through the holes in the wall relief. The gas fills a 15-foot cube directly in front of the mural. Creatures in the area must make a DC 12 Constitution saving throw, taking 14 (4d6) poison damage on a failed saving throw, or half as much damage on a successful one. The gas affects a creature even if it holds its breath or doesn't need to breathe. The gas doesn't linger.

***Puzzle Cube.*** To obtain Shagambi's puzzle cube, the characters must obtain the four bronze spears from the monsters in area 4C and place the weapons in the hands of the four warrior statues. Only by defeating the monsters in the gladiatorial pit can the spears be obtained. When all four spears are placed in the hands of the statues, read:

>>The pedestal begins to turn on the spot, and an ornate stone cube corkscrews up from a hatch in its top.
>>

Once it rises up out of the pedestal, Shagambi's puzzle cube can be safely removed.

#### 4C. Gladiator Cells

This hallway contains four cramped cells behind iron portcullises. The portcullises are locked in place and can be raised only with a *knock* spell or by stepping on the pressure plate in area 4D. Each cell contains a **Chultan gladiator** made of painted clay. Each gladiator is a golem-like creature with a bronze spear in one hand and a wooden shield in the other. It has the statistics of a **gladiator**, with these changes:

- The **clay gladiator** is an unaligned construct with an Armor Class of 17 (natural, shield).
- It has a climbing speed of 30 feet and can climb difficult surfaces, including upside down on ceilings, without needing to make an ability check.
- It is immune to poison damage as well as the charmed, frightened, and poisoned conditions. It doesn't need to eat, drink, sleep, or breathe.
- It doesn't speak.
- It can't make ranged attacks, and it can't be disarmed.

A **clay gladiator** fights if attacked or when called to the gladiatorial pit (area 4D). If reduced to 0 hit points outside of the gladiatorial pit, the gladiator disappears along with its possessions, reappears in its cell at full health with spear and shield in hand, and returns to the gladiatorial pit if it can. If defeated in the gladiatorial pit, the gladiator leaves its spear behind before reforming in its cell. The spear can then be taken back to area 4B. If taken from the shrine, the spear disappears and reappears in the gladiator's hand.

The gladiators can go anywhere in the shrine but can't leave it. When the shrine has no other creatures inside it, the gladiators return to their cells, and the portcullises drop behind them.

#### 4D. Gladiatorial Pit

This pit is 20 feet deep, and its bars are spaced 2 feet apart. A Medium or smaller creature can easily slip between the bars, but the walls of the pit are too smooth to climb without the aid of climbing gear or magic.

Six-foot-high archways stand opposite one another at the bottom of the pit, the floor of which is one large pressure plate. Applying 50 pounds or more to the floor causes the portcullises in area 4C to rise with a loud clatter, whereupon the clay gladiators emerge from their cells and quickly make their way to the pit.

