### 6. Moa's Shrine

This shrine perches on a pinnacle of rock high above the great rift (area 5).

>>A column of rock rises 200 feet above the lava. A walled ruin overgrown with palms perches on the summit.
>>

At its narrowest point, the gulf between the shrine and the rest of the city is 60 feet wide. Characters with rope and grappling hooks can throw a line across the gap.

The shrine to the trickster god Moa (represented by a jaculi) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods.

#### 6A. Shrine Entrance

>>Palm trees grow in front of this squat building, and worn steps ascend to an archway that forms the entrance. Reliefs of coiled serpents flank the entrance.
>>

Four **jaculis** (see *appendix D*) lurk in the courtyard, using their camouflage to hide while coiled around tree trunks. If the characters enter the courtyard, the jaculis spring forth and attack.

#### 6B. Trapped Passage

>>The walls of this rubble-strewn corridor are carved with serpents, and arrow slits are spaced along them every 5 feet. Cobwebs fill the arrow slits and hang like drapes from the corridor ceiling. Above the entrance, a stone plaque bears a cuneiform message.
>>

The message on the plaque is written in Old Omuan and reads, "Moa teaches us that secrets hide the truth." Explorers must heed this message to find the shrine's puzzle cube.

The arrow slits are 6 inches wide, 2 feet tall, and 1 foot deep. A character who peers through an arrow slit after clearing out the cobwebs can see into the room beyond (area 6D), provided the character has a light source or can see in the dark.

***Pits.*** Three covered pits are spaced along the corridor in the positions marked X on the shrine map. Their covers remain locked until the puzzle cube is moved from the pedestal in area 6C. Thereafter, a creature stepping on a pit cover causes it to swing open and falls in unless it succeeds on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw. Each pit is 10 feet deep and has a patch of green slime (see chapter 5 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*) at the bottom of it.

A character who searches the hallway floor for traps finds a pit trap with a successful DC 15 Wisdom (Perception) check. The lids are cleverly constructed and can be jammed shut only by using magic such as an *arcane lock* spell.

#### 6C. Chamber of Deception

>>In the middle of this room, a stone cube rests on a plain stone pedestal. Statues of twelve tribal warriors jut from the surrounding walls, aiming bows at the pedestal. The floor in front of the pedestal bears a mosaic depicting a monstrous serpent constricting a furious monkey. Moss obscures much of the detail.
>>

The mosaic shows Moa (a **jaculi**) fighting Wongo (a **su-monster**). If a character peels the moss aside, they uncover the following message written in Old Omuan: "Death rewards a thief deceived. Truth comes from the serpent's mouth." Another inscription encircles the floor and tells the story of how Moa upheld the truth to Ubtao and betrayed Wongo's trust (see "Legend of the Nine Gods").

The puzzle cube on the pedestal is illusory, though it feels real to the touch. A *detect magic* spell or similar effect reveals an aura of illusion magic around the cube. When taken from the shrine, it vanishes in a puff of green smoke. If a creature removes the puzzle cube from the pedestal or tries to damage one of the statues, the archers animate and open fire on all creatures in the room. The archers can detect the presence of creatures even if they are invisible. Before they open fire, arrows magically appear in their bows. The archers remain animated for 1 hour, after which they revert to their inanimate state.

The twelve archers act on initiative count 20. On its turn, a statue shoots one arrow (+6 to hit). A creature hit by an arrow takes 5 (1d8 + 1) piercing damage. Each statue is a Medium object with AC 17; 30 hit points; immunity to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage from nonmagical attacks; and immunity to poison and psychic damage.

***Secret Doors.*** Characters who search the walls for secret doors find one on each side of the entrance tunnel with a successful DC 12 Wisdom (Perception) check.

#### 6D. Western Secret Room

>>A statue of a coiled serpent dominates this web-filled room. The statue is missing its head, which lies broken on the floor next to a stone cube.
>>

The statue is 7 feet tall without its head. The puzzle cube lying on the floor next to the head's shattered remains is fake and vanishes in a puff of green smoke when taken from the shrine. Bringing it into area 6C activates the statues there.

#### 6E. Eastern Secret Room

>>A large statue of a coiled serpent dominates this web-filled room. Clutched in the statue's jaws is a stone cube.
>>

The statue is 8 feet tall and harmless.

***Puzzle Cube.*** The cube is Moa's puzzle cube. It can be removed from the statue's jaws and the shrine safely.

