### 7. Fallen Tree

>>A fallen tree bridges the river ahead. Its trunk is wider than a man and stretches more than 100 feet. On both banks lie ruined buildings.
>>

An elderly tabaxi hunter named **Bag of Nails** ambushes the characters if they try to ford the river here.

The fallen trunk is wide enough for two Medium creatures to pass each other safely. Under the tree, the water churns toward the falls 200 feet downriver. A creature that tumbles into the river or tries to swim across it must succeed on a DC 14 Strength (Athletics) check to reach the bank. If the check fails, the current pulls the creature toward the falls at a speed of 50 feet per round.

#### Bag of Nails


**Bag of Nails** yearns for a hunter's death. Senility has taken hold, and now he sees all creatures as his prey.

When the characters arrive, **Bag of Nails** is hiding in a ruined building on the east bank of the river, 150 feet from the fallen tree. To spot him, a character must succeed on a DC 22 Wisdom (Perception) check. When a character crosses the bridge, **Bag of Nails** opens fire. After each shot, he leaps across the rooftops to a new firing position and tries to hide.

**Bag of Nails** is a tabaxi **assassin**, with these changes:

- **Bag of Nails** is chaotic neutral.
- He has a climbing speed of 20 feet and the Feline Agility trait (see below).
- He has darkvision out to a range of 60 feet.
- He knows Common, Dwarvish, and thieves' cant.
- As an action, he can make a melee weapon attack with his claws (+3 to hit), dealing 1d4 slashing damage on a hit.
- He carries a longbow instead of a crossbow (range 150/600 ft.).

>***Feline Agility.*** When the tabaxi moves on its turn in combat, it can double its speed until the end of the turn. Once it uses this trait, the tabaxi can't use it again until it moves 0 feet on one of its turns.

If **Bag of Nails** drops to fewer than half his maximum hit points, he surrenders to his enemies, leads them to his lair (a ruined basement), and offers them stew in a show of friendship. While distributing bowls of stew, he explains that he came to Omu to find a fabled treasure called the Navel of the Moon (see chapter 5). He hoped to use its alleged powers to find his lost son, but he has long since given up hope of ever finding it. A successful DC 15 Wisdom (Insight) check reveals that the tabaxi has no intention of letting the characters leave his domain alive. He laces the stew with *midnight tears (ingested)* (see "*Poisons*" in chapter 8 of the *Dungeon Master's Guide*).

#### Treasure

Characters who search through the tabaxi hunter's lair find five doses of *midnight tears (ingested)* in a hollow gourd and enough gear to make an explorer's pack.

