### 8. Unkh's Shrine

>>Swirly carvings decorate two obelisks at the entrance to this compound. An overgrown courtyard lies under the shade of tall palms. Stone doors seal the entrance to a windowless shrine, with a smaller ruin standing nearby.
>>

The shrine to the trickster god Unkh (represented by a flail snail) contains one of nine puzzle cubes needed to enter the Tomb of the Nine Gods.

#### 8A. Shrine Entrance

Above the doors is written an inscription in Old Omuan: "Unkh urges us to contrast all options before acting." Unkh's priests were contemplative but prone to indecision. Their message is a clue to solving the shrine's puzzle. The doors to the shrine are not locked and hang heavy on their hinges. Each door weighs 600 pounds, so one or more characters need a combined Strength score of 20 or higher to heave them open.

#### 8B. Ruined Workshop

>>The roof of this workshop collapsed long ago, and now a thick mass of plants grows from the rubble. Through the moss, you see hundreds of iron keys hanging from hooks on the wall. Some are bent and broken, while others are rusted beyond repair. The rest look serviceable.
>>

One of the keys unlocks the pedestal in area 8C. If the characters know which key to look for, they find it after a few minutes of searching.

#### 8C. Chamber of Contemplation

>>A statue of a giant snail looms before you. In place of antennae, it has five pseudopods ending in rocky clubs. Along the walls, six iron keys hang in small niches above stone plinths. Behind the statue, a carved pedestal in a wide alcove has a keyhole set into its base.
>>

The statue is 9 feet tall and represents the trickster god Unkh as a flail snail. Three **ghasts** (undead Chultan tribesfolk) hide behind it. Each ghast has **Ras Nsi**'s symbol—a small blue triangle—tattooed on its forehead. The ghasts leap out from behind the statue and attack as soon as the characters enter the room.

None of the keys in this room unlock the pedestal. However, they are all similar in size. If a character takes all six keys and overlaps them, their overlapping teeth form a particular pattern. A search of the ruined workshop (area 8B) yields a single key that matches this pattern. This key unlocks the pedestal.

***Puzzle Cube.*** Unkh's puzzle cube is hidden inside the pedestal. If a character inserts the correct key in the keyhole and turns the key a quarter turn clockwise, the puzzle cube emerges from a concealed hatch:

>>The pedestal grinds around on the spot. As it turns, an ornate stone cube corkscrews up from a concealed hatch in its surface.
>>

The puzzle cube can now be safely removed from its pedestal.

Using *thieves' tools*, a character can pick the lock on the pedestal with a successful DC 25 Dexterity check. A character who fails the check by 5 or more accidentally triggers the trap.

***Trap.*** If a character inserts the wrong key into the keyhole at the base of the pedestal or botches an attempt to pick the lock, the shell of the flail snail statue emits dazzling rays of light that fire in all directions. When this happens, each creature in the shrine must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. Any creature that fails the save is struck by a ray and takes 33 (6d10) radiant damage. The statue can't emit rays while wholly or partly contained with an *antimagic field*.

